okay let's look into this a bit closer
with yasa Alaska who's an academic and
specialist on Gaza and the Palestinian
Israeli conflict who joins us live from
Dublin in Ireland a warm welcome to you
and the EU foreign policy Chief as we've
been hearing has announced the eu's
three Nos and three yeses framework I
wonder if we could talk about the NOS to
start off with Gaza cannot be leveled no
reoccupation no Force displacement are
we seeing in any way that being the
direction of travel so far
um well I mean um if we look um at what
has been happening on the ground and the
Israeli policy we see the opposite which
is Israel is now in um almost um full
occupation of Gaza almost um the
southern part of Gaza will be occupied
soon according to Israeli military
leaders um secondly Force displacement
of the Palestinians is Israel has done
that already and it displaced um more
than a million Palestinians from the
north of Gaza into the south of Gaza
without any access um to electricity to
food um to basic uh medical supplies um
um and in terms of um in terms of
looking into the future um um in terms
of security um what we're what we're
seeing really is um Benjamin Netanyahu
the Israeli leader uh saying clearly um
in recent days uh that they want to keep
the security control of Gaza and they
want to to to keep that uh control and
they're not going to um change that
situation um so that's what Israel uh
wants so um when you look at it in terms
of security control in terms of
occupation in terms of force
displacement all of that um has been
happening um you know
all of this has been happening and all
of that we've seen it on the ground in
right so so let me get this straight so
regarding those three NOS all of those
have already been massively violated
well in that case let's talk about the
three yeses the Palestinian Authority
must return to Gaza meaning one single
pa not several uh its terms must be
defined by the UN Security Council and
thirdly Arab countries and the EU must
be involved in the construction of a
Palestinian State presumably rather than
simply Outsourcing it to the United
States um do these suggestions address
some of the failings to date in
establishing a two-state
solution um I mean it's very clear U
that um that um the two-state solution
hasn't been a possibility um for many
decades now um and um and the and the EU
position is reflecting that U because
for years the EU has been talking about
political progress in the Israeli
Palestinian conflict but it hasn't taken
any concrete or policy action to make
this possible for example it continues
to trade with with Israel um for example
it continues to um support Israel at the
international level it continues to have
diplomatic and economic relations with
Israel um so um the EU is reflecting uh
you know this political failure on their
side secondly there um there is a great
of division within the EU countries
around the future of the Palestinian
issue um there are countries such as for
example um Hungary and Germany who are
um in full support of the Israeli policy
uh in terms of its um attacks on Gaza in
terms of its war against Gaza um other
countries like France for example
they've changed their position and now
they're talking about a ceasefire um in
terms of the uh the return of the
Palestinian Authority um the EU has the
EU leader has been talking about that um
but really we have uh to put that into
context which is the Israeli government
hasn't been willing uh to talk about the
return of the Palestinian Authority into
Gaza um so we have seen really kind of
um um a disconnection between what the
international and Europeans and European
leaders are saying and what the Israeli
leaders are doing on the ground right if
first Jose barell insists the EU and
Arab states must play a key role uh in
any future decision making how do you
think Israel Israel will respond to that
having previously relied solely on the
opinions coming out of the White
House I think one thing is very clear
which is Israel is not interested in the
return of the Palestinian Authority to
the Gaza Strip not because in principle
it's against the Palestinian Authority
um I think I think the main reason
behind that is because the return of the
Palestinian Authority means the return
of the political process the return of
the Diplomatic process with the
Palestinians and the Israeli right-wing
government and Benjamin natany himself
are not interested in that they're not
interested in Palestinian political
rights they're not interested in
political discussions about the about
the Palestinian issue and therefore um
they um they have been consistent in
saying we will stand against the return
of the Palestinian Authority to Gaza and
all of that of course begs the question
where then do you make even a political
start yes Alaska a very an awful lot of
thanks to you for joining us on the news
out thank you